---
title: Build a Home Screen
---

## Summary

In this project we will be focusing on building the smart phone home screen by using a few JavaScript functions that are very widely used in DOM manipulation.

The first will be creating an Array of objects, the next will be creating an element and lastly we will go over appending that element to the DOM.

If this is your first time looking at this it can be a little confusing, but with time it will become much easier. Knowing what you can do with JavaScript is half the battle.

Let's go!

## Html

```html
<link
  rel="stylesheet"
  href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/5.15.1/css/all.min.css"
/>
```

The very first thing you will need to do for this project is to link the "Font Awesome" stylesheet to your HTML. You can either go through [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) or you can head to [CDNJS](https://cdnjs.com/libraries/font-awesome) and copy the `link` tag on the first selection. Place it in the `head` element of your HTML.

```html
<div class="container">
  <div id="smart-phone-container" class="smart-phone-container">
    <div id="home-screen-app-container" class="home-screen-app-container">
      <ul id="home-screen-app-list" class="home-screen-app-list faded-out">
        <!-- The list elements generated by JavaScript. -->
      </ul>
    </div>
    <button
      id="smart-phone-home-button"
      class="smart-phone-home-button"
    ></button>
  </div>
</div>
```

The first thing you will want to create is the main-container. This will serve as the container that will hold everything and center the smartphone layout on your screen. You may need to play around with the CSS settings a little bit to customize it however you would like.

The next element that we will be adding is the div with the id/class `home-screen-app-container`. It will be placed inside the `smart-phone-container` but will not serve as a container for the `smart-phone-home-button.`

After this we want to create an unordered list element `ul` and give it the id/class of `home-screen-app-list` and a class of `faded-out`, place it inside the`home-screen-app-container` div. Generally we would want to put our list items `li` in here but we will be generating those through the JavaScript and appending them to this UL parent element.

## Css

TODO: I don't have _that_ much free time 😂.

## JavaScript

TODO: I don't have _that_ much free time 😂.
